How did you play Hannibal Lecter? Well,
I played the opposite of what they
promised. Oh, he's a monster.
Good morning. You know, it's real FBI.
How are you?
[Music]
In so many of Sir Anthony Hopkins'
greatest performances, he's able to
suggest captivating hidden depths to his
characters.
A census taker once tried to test me.
I ate his liver with some fava beans and
a nice chianti.
There's always a sense these characters
are thinking and feeling things that for
whatever reason they're keeping to
themselves.
Let me see it.
[Music]
But in his new autobiography,
Hopkins himself is laying his life bare,
revealing details about his tough
childhood in Wales, and his painful
estrangement from his only child.
Hopkins is 87 now, and he makes it clear
in the book that he's grappling with
life's bigger questions, the why of it
all, and what it means, and how
mystified he feels by the sheer luck and
improbability of his unlikely life.
Here's my conversation with Anthony
Hopkins.
[Music]
Hello, David. Tony Hopkins. Uh I was
wondering, do I go Sir Anthony? Is that
>> No, no, no. Tony. Nice to meet you.
Good to meet you.
You know, I thought it might be
interesting to start with a
a key epiphany that you write about in
the book. You know, we we all have our
turning points in our lives. Would you
have such a specific one and and know
exactly when it happened, um a moment
that sort of changed everything for you?
Can you tell me about what happened on
December 29th, 1975 at 11:00?
Well,
it's almost 50 years ago.
I'm always slightly reluctant to talk
about it because I don't want it to
sound preachy or like a goody two-shoes.
But I was drunk driving my car
here in California
in a blackout.
No clue where I was going.
And it was a moment when I realized that
I could have killed somebody or myself
which I didn't care about. But I could
have killed a family in the car, you
know.
And I realized
that I was an alcoholic.
And I came to my senses and I said to
I it was
an ex-agent of mine at this party in
Beverly Hills.
I said, "I need help."
So, I made the fatal phone call to an
intergroup
in LA.
12-step program.
So, they will send somebody over to meet
you. I said, "No, I'll come to you."
So, I went to this intergroup office.
So, 11:00 precisely. Looked at my watch.
And this is the spooky part. Some deep,
powerful thought or voice
spoke to me from inside and said, "It's
all over.
Now you can start living. And it has all
been for a purpose. So, don't forget one
moment of it." And it was just a voice
from the blue?
From inside, deep inside me. But it was
vocal, male, reasonable, like a radio
voice.
And it was a monotone, but it's it's all
over.
The craving to drink was taken from me
or left. I don't know have any theories
except I,
you know, could it be divinity or that
power that we all possess inside us that
creates us
from birth, life force, whatever it is.
It's a consciousness, I believe. That's
all I know.
But my whole life
has been like that.
Should I give you another epiphany? Mhm.
I go back to 1955, Easter.
And I was
my school report had arrived. The
dreaded school report.
I'm 17.
And I was dreading this day because my
parents would read these terrible
reports on my progress in school because
I was a dummy.
I was known as Dennis the Dunce.
Couldn't understand anything was going
on. Resentful,
lonely, and all that. I remember my
father opening the report.
The dreaded moment, about 5:00 in the
evening.
We were going to go go off to see a
film, I remember. Beautiful spring day.
And he opened the report.
And it said,
"Anthony
is way below the standard of the
school."
Which is a death knell, really.
And my father said, "I don't know what's
going to happen to you. I don't know
good you." But he he was worried
because, and quite reasonably, he'd
spent a bit of money to give me an
education, and I wasn't capable of
meeting that standard. I couldn't
understand anything. I my brain was sort
of cut off. But I remember taking a
a slight move away. I said, "One day
I'll show you."
My father looked at me. He said,
"Well, I hope you do."
Well, at that moment was I decided to to
stop playing the game of being stupid
and a dummy. We step into circles of
energy which are negative. And we play a
role because it's easy to say, "Well,
you know, uh
I'm not you know,
it's not meant for me." That's Well,
there's a truth in it, but at the same
time you have to say, "Wake up and
live."
Act as if it is impossible to fail.
And that's what I did. You know, you
grew up the son of a baker,
working class in Wales, and I I
can't imagine growing up that you knew
that many artists or actors. Um was the
idea of becoming an actor something that
you or your family had ambivalence
about?
>> No. Mhm.
I think as a 17-year-old boy who didn't
know anything, really, something sparked
me, and I got a scholarship
to an acting school in South Wales. I'd
never acted in my life.
But I did an audition.
And uh
they gave me a scholarship. How, I don't
know.
And I remember, this is another thing. I
remember going to see
a play with the great Peter O'Toole
at the Bristol Old Vic. He was playing
Jimmy Porter in Look Back in Anger. And
onto the stage came this lightning bolt,
Peter O'Toole, very dangerous actor.
And I thought, "God, if he stepped off
the stage, he'd come and kill us all."
And um
10 years later,
I was in the theater, the National
Theatre, playing
uh Andrei in
Laurence Olivier's production of Three
Sisters by Chekhov. Knock on the door at
the end of the evening.
Who should be there but Peter O'Toole?
Now, that's weird. And he said, "I want
you to do a film test for me."
It's a film with Katharine Hepburn
called The Lion in Winter. Yeah, it was
your first film. Yeah. So, I showed up
and uh did the test.
He said, "Right, you've got it.
You've got the part." And he'd had a few
to drink, and we had a few to drink
after that day.
Now, that's beyond explanation to me.
And I when I look at that film, which I
do occasionally, I think,
"How on earth did that happen?
Why me?" I don't know to this day why.
And um I am what I am, and I do what I
do because I love doing it. It's all in
the game.
Wonderful game
called life.
No sweat, no big deal. There are no big
deals.
>> So, when you were
uh a kid and you would hear your father
or teachers
say you were a dummy, uh
I'm sure that the voice your voice in
your own head when you were younger
also said, "I'm a dummy." That's right.
How did And I think people are are often
in their lives, and certainly true for
me, um
you know, we do battle with this voice
in our head that tells us we can't do
things or we're stupid or whatever it
may be. Um
how did you quiet that voice?
Or learn to control it?
Well, it's still there in me from
childhood. But what you do with No
whispers. So, what I say, "Shut up."
So, yeah, I just Yeah, thanks a lot. We
all have problems. We've all got
limitations.
But I do believe that if you say,
um
"Wake up and live."
Act as if it is impossible to fail. We
actually tap into a power that's in
ourselves
which helps us to do
well,
not everything, but some things. I
discovered that I could compose music. I
discovered that I could write. I
discovered through my lovely wife,
Stella, that I could paint.
And I remember she was an example
because she changed my life.
She found some
drawings in some old scripts of mine
just
after we got married.
And she said, "These drawings, you did
these?" I said, "Yes." She said, "You've
got to paint." I said, "I can't paint."
She said, "Of course you can. Just do
it."
So, I then bought some canvases and
acrylic paints and pens and inks.
And I just do it.
I I have a a question about that, but
before I'm really having a hard time
with these headphones.
All right, sorry about that. We're We're
back.
>> I have much bigger headphones now. They
look good.
>> All right, good. Yeah, thank you.
Um you know, often when I've talked with
actors, um they've suggested that
something about acting and something
about their affinity for acting, or gift
for acting, um has to do with the way
that acting fulfills something for them.
Is there anything
that you find
acting fulfills for you? Some some inner
need?
Well, a need would sound rather sad.
I just enjoy it. Mhm. I enjoy the
the scientific fun of it of
learning a script all the lines. And I'm
very good at that. I
I learn everything there is to about the
the text that I'm studying, because that
reforms something in me.
And I suppose in a deep psychological
>> Yeah. level, I'm trying to escape from
what I was. I don't know. But if
somebody
>> What is the thing you were trying to
escape from? Well, that lonely kid, you
know. Yeah.
And actually the vain surprise of
saying, "I did it. I survived my
loneliness. I survived those bullies."
Not that I blame them. God bless them
all. I mean, I'm not a victim. Mhm.
And you know, I people choose to wallow
in their hole. Well, okay, go ahead, but
you're going to die.
Um because you can't do that. And that's
why I drank. Ah. To to um nullify that
uh discomfort or whatever it was in me,
cuz it made me feel big. You know, booze
is terrific because it makes you
instantly feel
in a different space.
And I enjoyed that. I didn't do it that
long. I did it 15 years. But I remember
thinking, "This is the life." And all
actors in those days, Peter O'Toole,
Richard Burton, all of them. And you
know, they I remember those drinking
sessions thinking, "This is the life.
We're rebels. We're outsiders. We can
celebrate."
And at the back of the mind is
"And it'll kill you as well."
Ah. And I remember thinking,
"This is going to kill me." The
drinking?
Yeah. Cuz I was doing it I was drinking
like it was going out of fashion. And
those guys I worked with they've all
gone. And they were very talented
people. Wonderful.
But once you get into that
schizophrenic
stage when your personality becomes
uh
uh rapid, and from moment to moment
you're jolly nice guy in the bar, and
suddenly you turn. Viciously say, "You
talk to me like that." That's what was
happening to me.
You uh
write about how you were influenced by
um older actors like uh Laurence Olivier
or or Katharine Hepburn sort of helped
you understand about film acting. But I
was I was curious about whether any of
the younger actors that you've worked
with over the years, people like, you
know, Nicole Kidman or or Brad Pitt or
Ryan Gosling,
have they taught you anything about
acting or or shown you anything about
the craft?
Um
it's always been a pleasure to work with
them. I mean, Brad,
and um the everyone you've just
mentioned,
nothing but praise for them.
I was working with a young actor a few
years ago,
young Canadian actor who looked a bit
like James Dean. Ah. I think he thought
he was James Dean.
But we were doing a scene together and
he was mumbling
I said, "Can't hear a word you're
saying." Huh?
"I can't hear you.
Why are you mumbling?"
I didn't want to spoil his day. Yeah.
But I said, "If you do that, you see,
then we go to the pub next door, cuz
you're supposed to tell us the story.
Speak up.
Be clear.
Wandering on like a
backstreet Marlon Brando is not going to
help you at all in your career."
I uh
uh uh
Never heard him since.
In reading the book and in reading um
sort of older interviews with you or
older articles about you, I think to me
there's a a consistent
sense
that comes from you that uh
you know, acting shouldn't really be
taken that seriously. The actors are
entertainers. And and I wonder,
do you think acting has any greater
claim
on the truth?
No.
It's an entertainment. Mhm. Maybe it's
an educational way of entertaining. So
it has no deeper importance?
Not dismissing it, but I'm just saying,
you know, if I start taking myself
too seriously,
I I think
it's only a job. It's only It's only
acting.
So for me, they're just
pastiches, little
dabs of paint in one's life.
And
not to be taken
because of the moment when
you get to a certain age in life, you're
going through your grand ambitions, you
got great dreams,
and everything's fine. And then on the
distant hill
is death.
And you think, "Well, now is the time to
wake up and live, and really enjoy it."
Do you Do you feel like you achieved
your dreams?
Oh, yeah.
I don't
I don't know if they were dreams. They
just happened to me.
Uh cuz I can't take credit for them.
At all. I I can't I mean, my life is a
mystery to me.
I'm not trying to sound uh ultra modest
or humble.
But I have to confess that I don't
understand
how it all happened.
The miracle is I look at my hands, you
know, my hands are 87-year-old man's
hands. Um
I'm slowing down
uh and you know, my body's creaky,
although I'm still strong.
But the miracle of it
is I'm still here.
And that's not a mathematical formula.
That's a miracle of life that's in us
all.
The heart that still beats. I look at my
cat.
I watch him sleeping, out for the count.
And I look at the miracle of his life.
A little cat.
The miracle of the sheer miracle. To
dismiss it is a sacrilege. What uh
What snaps you out of the miracle? Uh my
bad back. Ah.
That'll do it. Yeah. It's not even that
bad. I you know, I get a bit of
treatment, lower back, bit of stiffness.
Um
and what I do now is slow down.
I take everything very slowly because
you know,
I'm strong. My legs are strong. I work
out.
But what I do is I take it easy because
one trip,
one fall,
can kill you.
Well, I mean, your age is you know, it's
it's a fact. It's it's undeniable. But
it doesn't really seem from afar as if
your productivity has slowed down. You
You work a lot. Um Yeah. Do you
Do you know what to do your with
yourself when you're not working?
I play the piano. I read. But why do you
work so much is my real question? They
offer still offer me work. I don't know
what's in their minds. They may think
I'm 40. I don't know if they give me
these jobs to do. I think, "Okay." And I
think, "Well, if they're
game to employ me,
I hope I just show up
fit and well,
and ready." But what do you say yes to?
I mean, do you just say yes to
everything? Anything I got.
Uh well, why not? No, I say yes as as
long as it's a good script, not too
far-fetched,
as long as the writing is good,
and uh directors amenable.
Uh
Yeah, why not?
How often these days do you get a
director who's not amenable?
Oh, they're all amenable now.
Is that a change?
Uh well, I used to in the past have
a few problems with
those days it was
they were tyrant directors, tyrannical
bullies.
Few of those, but when I
used to confront them, I would confront
them in no uncertain terms.
I'd say things like, "You talk to me
like that,
and you'll wake up with a crowd around
you."
Whether I meant it or not, I don't know.
But I wouldn't put up with it.
I said, "Don't talk to me like that."
Uh I said, "No, you shut up."
And either they would or they wouldn't.
I remember working with a director who
was
uh giving notes to a young
uh young woman,
fine actress.
>> Mhm. And he started shouting at her. I
said, "Hold it.
You raise your voice one decibel
to this lady,
and I'm going, 'And you, my dear, should
leave as well.'"
She said after she said, "Thank you."
I said, "How long has he been doing
that?" She said,
"From the whole time I've seen him." I
said, have told me."
I can't even remember the director. I
think he's gone now.
But no, I I defend people. Don't raise
your voice. It's a film. It's a stupid
film. That's all it is. It's not
important.
Doing take after take after take after
take. Who cares?
Do you Do you uh
feel that any of the films that you've
made would uh
Would you call them important?
No.
Not one?
>> No.
The Elephant Man.
Give me The Elephant Man.
Yeah, it was a good film.
The Remains of the Day.
Yeah, they were good, but Silence of the
Lambs.
Ah.
But the the the the thing is, you know,
about all that stuff. People ask me
about Silence of the Lambs. How did you
do that? I said, "Well, I'm not Hannibal
Lecter.
I'm not a butler.
I'm not this and I'm not that, I'm just
a mechanic.
I show up. No one laughs. Someone says,
"How did you play The Remains of the
Day?
That butler, how did you play him?"
I said, "Well, I was very quiet,
very still,
and
walked about quietly." That's it.
How did you play Hannibal Lecter?
Well, I played the opposite of what they
promised. "Oh, he's a monster."
Good morning.
You're not real FBI, are you?
Gives me the heebie-jeebies. Don't do
that.
Cuz you played the opposite.
And it's easy. This idea that
essentially life is a game, there are no
big deals, we don't need to take
anything so seriously, just got to do
the best you can.
That's sort of a
in a way a recurring theme in
in your book.
And I wonder if if we believe that, you
know, we shouldn't take anything too
seriously,
what should we take seriously? What does
matter in life?
Well, I don't mean to, you know, be a
res- responsibly irresponsibly
indifferent to everything.
There are difficulties, there are
monstrous difficulties in life, and
yeah, you take notice of them.
But finally, and I think now
approaching 88 years of age, I wake up
in the morning going,
"I'm still here.
How? I don't know.
But whatever is keeping me, I say,
"Thank you very much, much obliged."
Beyond my
finite self, there's not much I can do.
I I had a gift when I was a boy. I
could suddenly learn
lots of words of speeches from
Shakespeare and poems and all that. Now
at this age, I
look at those poems that I wrote down,
or
they bring back clear memories of my
childhood.
>> Mhm.
And I get very moved by it. You know, I
just have to think of them. I get
tearful, not through sadness, but
through the wonder of having been alive,
having lived those years, and my clear
memories of Wales, my clear memories of
my parents and their struggles and
hardships after the war years, you know.
They really struggled to get make a
living and to give me an education. I
look back with tremendous gratitude, and
and I get kind of weepy
because I remember the glory of being a
child, you know.
I had a good childhood. I wasn't bright
in school. I was hopeless, and I was
bullied a lot. I was slapped around.
But I look back, and I think, well,
that's part of growing up. In them those
days, teachers could knock you about.
I remember being slapped across the head
um by um a
a teacher several times
because I didn't know something.
And what I would do or revert to would
be
called in the army dumb insolence. I
wouldn't respond. I just withdrawn to
myself, and I'd stare at them blankly.
Yeah, can you show me what that looked
like cuz you refer to it a couple times
in the book.
>> So, I remember the
the principal of the school slapping me
on the head. He said, "You're
inadequate.
Do you know what I mean?"
Yes.
No.
Bang.
You're inadequate.
You got an empty brain. You're
brainless.
There's the look.
And it drove them nuts.
And they're all dead now.
You won.
I won.
But can you
>> know.
You know, there there I'd like to return
to the material from the book for a
second, and
um
the specific material I'd like to
focus on, I know it's uh
sensitive for you. So, if
>> what you're going to talk about, my
domestic life. Yes.
>> No. No.
Even though it's in the book. No. It's
done.
Can I ask a general question that's not
specifically about the material in the
book?
What?
It's about the
I'll I'll stumble through this. Part of
the reason that the material in the book
about your relationship with your
daughter, your strange relationship with
your daughter, part of the reason why I
found it so painful is that it resonated
with me for personal reasons.
I've seen my father
I think twice in 20 years, you know,
I've spoken to him once in in those 20
years, and I'm very curious about
other people's experience of
that kind of estrangement.
In this instance, the estrangement is
my choice, but I I just
wonder if you have thoughts about
where reconciliation might lie between
estranged parents and children.
My wife,
Stella,
sent an invitation
to
come and see us.
Not a word of response.
So, I think I'll give it a try.
I wish her well.
But I'm not going to waste blood over
that.
If you want to waste your life being in
resentment
50 years later, 58 years later, fine, go
ahead.
It's not in my can.
See, we can I could carry
resentment over the past, this and the
other.
But that's death.
You're not living.
You have to acknowledge one thing
that we are imperfect.
We're not saints.
We're all sinners and saints or whatever
we are.
We do the best we can.
Life is painful. Sometimes people get
hurt. Some of them we get hurt. But you
can't live like that.
You have to say, "Get over it." And if
you can't get over it, fine. Good luck
to you.
But I have no judgment.
But I did what I could.
So, that's it.
Would
do you hope
>> That's all I want to say. Do you hope
your daughter reads the book?
I'm not going to answer that, no. I
don't care.
I'll move on.
Please, I I want you to.
Cuz I don't want to hurt her.
I understand.
>> I don't want to I don't want to make any
No. 20 years, the offer was made, but
fine.
Onwards. In towards the end of the book,
you talk about a a couple
labels that might apply to you,
and one of which is Asperger's. I think
you say in there that your wife, Stella,
sort of suspects that you may have
Asperger's. Have Have you ever been
diagnosed? No. No. I've I'm told I have
all the symptoms. I
I don't know what any of it means. If I
have it, then I'm happy. I don't know.
But the the other label, it's right in
the in in the same paragraph, you know,
you you say another label that might
apply
is the label cold fish. And and you say
that you prefer the cold fish label to
the Asperger's label.
Why is that? Why does that feel more
fitting or more comfortable? Well, it's
it's only um
it's only
a turn of phrase, cold fish. I'm not a
cold fish. I
have lots of feelings bundled up with
them. They're deep inside me. When I
read something from the past, I get
tearful.
It's not
I think what it is
I don't get attached
to sentimentality.
In this business with actors who I
admire and I've worked with,
I form no attachment.
I respect them, but I form
Well, the cold fish is I am remote. I am
a loner, and I've never been able to
shake that.
Um
I have acquaintances,
friends, if you want to call them that.
I don't have any close friends.
I'm I'm
I'm a little distant.
Um a little suspicious, I suppose.
I'm comfortable just
chuntering along through my
my slightly isolated life. But I'm not a
recluse. I don't live in a tower.
Um
I live in a house here, and
uh I'm traveling a lot.
I have my
immediate family, my niece, Tara, and
um
my lovely wife, Stella, and they mostly
me about they tell me what to do.
And I'm happy with that. The the
sort of personal remoteness you
described,
I was wondering if if that
how that might actually benefit your
performances sometimes because
when I think of some of your some of my
favorite performances that you've given,
I'm thinking of things like Remains of
the Day or 84 Charing Cross Road,
The Father,
even on some level Silence of the Lambs
or Shadowlands has this too. There I
feel like there is
um
there is sort of an emotional remoteness
to some of those characters.
Um
And I wonder if that's something that
is just sort of like a
like a a fingerprint, maybe, or or a
signature of an of a good Anthony
Hopkins performance, or is that an
intentional sort of performing strategy?
>> I think it's partially intentional
because
many years ago, there were two teachers
at the Royal Academy.
They
They were brief visitors there. They did
not appreciate the academy.
The academics but they were teachers of
the Stanislavski system, let's say.
And I remember this one teacher called
Yat Malmgren.
And
he was a dance teacher.
He's Swedish.
And I used to go to these painful
classes of movement.
I hated them. And I'm built like a Welsh
rugby scrum, you know, a bit beefy.
And he said, "Anthony, you said you have
too much extraverted extraverted motoric
energy." So, "And you will become
insensitive."
I didn't know what he was talking about
but I gathered instinctively to develop
the other side, which was to pull back.
Be in the darkness. Be in the shade.
Called remote.
And it's the remote that paid off for me
cuz I had to change my whole psychology.
To not be that rambunctious rugby player
coming on the stage bumping into people,
being ferocious. Gradually I learned No,
no, pull back. Pull back.
There's one acting note that um
There's Gloria Grahame, great movie
star.
She was doing a film with Bogart
called In a Lonely Place.
And Bogart said to her,
"Stay in the shade."
"Don't go to the camera. Let it come to
you." He saw something in her because
she was a
little crazy, you know. He said, "Let it
come to you." And I think he had that
quality as well.
And that's the more magnetic side. It
compels you to watch.
Well, because you're not doing anything.
When Chilton says to Clarice Starling,
"What's he like?" "You mean Hannibal the
Cannibal?"
And Chilton, the head of the asylum,
says, "Oh, he's a monster."
And she goes down
the passageway to the cell
maybe expecting to see a blubbering
lunatic.
And Jonathan Demme said to me, he said,
"How do you want to be seen by Clarice?"
"Do you want to be lying on the bunk or
do you want to
be reading?" I said, "No, I want to be
standing."
"Why?" I said, "I can smell her coming
down the corridor."
When she sees me, there's this
still perfectly civil gentleman. "Good
morning."
"You're not real FBI, are you?" "All the
way to the FBI."
That's the way to build the portrait.
And it's all remote because Lecter is
the remote spellbinding character.
And if you have remoteness as the
centrifugal force in you, that's the
driving force that pulls you in.
There's a another epiphany that I'd like
to
go back to, if you don't mind. Uh this
is another one you describe in the book.
It's uh you were driving
in Los Angeles in I think the late '70s.
And you felt a pull to uh
go over to a Catholic church and you
went inside and you told a young priest
there that you had found God.
Um
Now, I get the sense that you know, I
don't
you're not you know, going to church
every Sunday or sort of praying in a
conventional way. So,
what is God to you? Well, it's a it's a
it's a touchy subject, isn't it? Because
um
religion and you know,
But what happened that morning when that
voice said, "It's over. Now you can
start living and it has all been from
for a purpose.
So, don't forget one moment of it."
I knew that was a power way beyond my
understanding.
Not up there in the
clouds
but here, in here.
So, I chose to call it at that moment
God. I didn't know what else to call it.
Sure, well, God is easy to spell.
And I
I recently wrote a piece of music which
was conducted in Riyadh, Goodbye.
Piano and orchestra.
And at the end
it came to me as I was writing it
as I was composing it
that that's it.
We come full circle.
We dip down to
That's all, folks.
And that it was all a dream anyway.
Everything is a dream.
And it's goodbye before death takes us.
If you're getting nearer to the the big
goodbye,
um
do you take any
pride or draw any
meaning or take any solace from what you
leave behind both as a person and as an
as an artist?
Oh, you mean a heritage? A legacy.
A legacy.
I never think about it.
When they cover the earth over you
um
That's it.
We move on.
I remember going to
I was asked
by the widow of Laurence Olivier, Joan
Plowright, if I would read
the last lines of King Lear at the
casket in this little church in Sussex.
I was astounded that I was asked to do
it.
There was
Olivier's casket full of the flowers and
wreaths and collections of flowers from
Shakespeare's Winter's Tale.
And
after that we got into our cars and
went to um the crematorium.
And I was sitting next to Maggie Smith,
the great actress Maggie Smith. I didn't
know her that well but we were sitting
next to each other.
And we both worked with Olivier. And
there was the casket and finally as the
curtains
you could hear the rollers
taking them into the crematorium into
the flames.
Maggie Smith said,
"What a final curtain."
And I just said, "God almighty, what is
it all about?"
The wonder
of all that energy that had gone into
his life or anyone's life.
Not just the celebrity but anyone's
life. The energy that goes into
survival.
Seeing my own father
dying, you know. Going to the hospital
the night he died.
And standing at the foot of his bed, my
mother
smoothing his hair. I felt his feet at
the bottom of the bed.
They were dead cold. He's gone.
And as I was stood there
that silent night in that
empty old empty sounding hospital
in South Wales
a voice again came to me, "You're not so
hot, either."
This is what will happen to you.
And it's a great wake-up call when you
know that. It's a fairly gruff voice.
You're not so hot. But what it is, it's
an awakening. Several awakenings and
epiphanies where you think, "Yeah,
that's right."
But Sir Sir Anthony, I realize I'm
dancing around a question that I would
like your answer to. Do you think your
life has had meaning?
The only meaning I can put to it
is that everything I sought
and yearned for found me.
I didn't find it.
It came to me.
On the interview, we try to talk to our
guest twice.
So, I spoke with Anthony Hopkins a few
days later. This time without video.
[Music]
Hi, Tony. Hello, is that David? It is
David. How are you?
>> Good. Good.
So, I of course saw that at the end of
your book, there's an appendix that
includes a handful of poems, which is
something I'd never seen done in an
autobiography before. Can you tell me
why you decided to include those poems?
When I was a kid I learned a lot of
poems, a lot of
words and I was very moved by them from
I think from about the age of 11.
There was one occasion
I was in school um
I was sitting in the back of the
classroom where I always sat
sullenly
not wanting to be involved in anything.
And uh
the English teacher
called me. He said, "I want Come up here
to the front of the class."
I said, "What for?"
He said, "I want you to read this poem."
He seemed to have an instinct about me
that I knew something.
And he handed me a poem which was um
West Wind by John Masefield.
Mhm.
He said, "Read that." He said, "Out
loud."
I read it and
I was strangely moved by it.
And at the end he said, "Um that's it.
Okay, good."
Thank you. It's very good.
So, it was my first good review, I
think.
And I think that's what it is. It's an
expression of life. I read poems and I
get kind of yeah, I get moving by them
and I don't know why. I think it's to do
with my age and how poetry
digs really deep inside us, you know,
beyond our understanding.
Would you be willing to read The West
Wind by John Masefield? That That is one
of the poems that you included in the
appendix. Let me just find it. Can I
Have I got a minute? Yep. Hold on a
second.
Ah, well, yes.
It's a warm wind, the west wind,
full of birds cries.
I never hear the west wind but tears are
in my eyes.
For it comes from the west lands, the
old brown hills,
and April's in the west wind
and daffodils.
It's a fine land, the west land, for
hearts as tired as mine.
Apple orchards blossom there, the air is
like wine. There is cool green grass
there where men may lie at rest,
and the thrushes are in song there,
fluting in the nest.
Will you not come home, brother? You've
been long away.
It's April and blossom time and white is
the may, and bright is the sun, brother,
and warm is the rain.
Will you not come home, brother?
Home to us again?
The young corn is green, brother, where
the rabbits run. It's blue sky and white
clouds and warm rain and sun.
It's song to a man's soul, brother, fire
to man's brain, to hear the wild bees
and see the merry spring again.
Larks are singing in the west, brother,
above the green wheat.
So, will you not come home, brother,
and rest your tired feet?
I've a balm for bruised hearts, brother,
sleep for aching eyes,
says the warm wind,
the west wind,
full of birds cries.
It's the white road, west wind is the
road I must tread to the green grass,
the cool grass, the rest for heart and
head,
to the violets and the warm hearts and
the thrushes song in the fine land, the
west land,
the land where I belong.
I'd like to end on that eloquent grace
note. Sir Anthony Hopkins, thank you
very much.
>> Thank you.
I'm Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And I'm David
Marchese. And we're the hosts of The
Interview, an audio and video podcast
from The New York Times. Every week we
interview fascinating and influential
people from all walks of life. Subscribe
to our YouTube channel so you'll never
miss an episode.
[Music]